# Revisions and the Cloud

## A summary of what I've learned

Holy cow what a session. I'm just going to write a little blog on everything I've learned becuase wow, there is a lot. Let me just clarify that I woke up early in order to do this work today. It is currently 5AM and I'm 2 coffee's in. I had a LOT of errors and troubleshooting to go through in order to even work with VSC and push updates VIA Ubuntu. Working on a windows computer and watching the pre-recorded lessons really confused me. There are key, subtle differences in the procedure that I just had to figure out on my own. So, lets talk about it!

### Github

Simply put, github is so cool. The ability to work on projects both locally and online with multiple different users is just incredible. Technology is freaky. Utilizing GIT underneath the hood as Roger put it really allows for work to be done quickly.

### Cloning, Editing, Updating

Learning to clone my repository was incredibly easy. Or at least, it should have been. The "git clone" command is incredibly simple, and github makes it so easy. But this is where my luck turned and I had to figure things out on my own. 

Using CD in my CLI, I was greeted with a very different presentation than Roger was. My CLI isn't as colorful as his was, and didn't show that I was actually editing that line. I was incredibly confused about this. Not only that, it took my about 30 minutes to discover that I needed to save my changes in VSC before I could push the update to Github.

Speaking of pushing updates, ACP. A very helpful acronym and one I will probably be using everyday for a good majority of my professional life.

Git Add "filename" stages the files to be committed

Git Commit saves those changes >Make sure to leave a note with -m "message of changes here"

Git Push sends it to Github. I learned with windows you need to log in EVERY TIME to do this. That sucks. I might buy a MAC.

### THE ACTUAL ASSIGNMENT

In terms of the actual reading, I found some things to be helpful. This is honestly all going to come with time and practice. Here's some ones that I'll be using a lot I feel

- Git Config --list = check settings

- Git help - gives help

- git status - shows the status of current project vs the master

- git stash - when you want a change but don't want to commit it yet

- git remote -v - shows all remote URL's

- git remote add shortname "URL" - I can already tell I'm going to use this to link to other projects

# I COULD GO ON

- There are so many. And I'm incredibly excited to learn all about git, and how it operates. 

[<=== BACK!](../class102main.md)
>]
